.Dd March 3, 2014
.Dt LIFTOFF 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm liftoff
.Nd create and configure Xcode projects
.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl -version
.Op Fl -help
.Op Fl -[no-]strict-prompts
.Op Fl -[no-]cocoapods
.Op Fl -[no-]git
.Op Fl -no-open
.Op Fl -[no-]settings
.Op Fl -template Ar TEMPLATE_NAME
.Op Fl -indentation Ar N
.Op Fl -name Ar PROJECT_NAME
.Op Fl -company Ar COMPANY_NAME
.Op Fl -author Ar AUTHOR_NAME
.Op Fl -prefix Ar PREFIX
.Op Fl -identifier Ar IDENTIFIER
.Op Fl -test-target-name Ar TEST_TARGET_NAME
.Op Ar PATH
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is designed to help iOS developers quickly get projects up and running without
spending valuable time performing tedious configurations.
.Pp
Run the
.Nm
command inside a directory.
.Pp
It supports the following options:
.Bl -tag -width "-i, --identifier IDENTIFIER"
.It Fl v , Fl -version
display the version number and exit
.It Fl h , Fl -help
display a help message and exit
.It Fl -[no-]strict-prompts
enable or disable strict prompts. If this is enabled,
.Nm
will only prompt for values that don't have a default set.
.It Fl -[no-]cocoapods
enable or disable CocoaPods support
.It Fl -[no-]git
enable or disable
.Xr git 1
configuration
.It Fl -no-open
Don't open Xcode after project generation
.It Fl -[no-]settings
enable or disable Settings.bundle
.It Fl -template Ar TEMPLATE_NAME
Use the specified template structure
.It Fl t , Fl -indentation Ar N
set the indentation width in spaces
.It Fl n , Fl -name Ar PROJECT_NAME
set the project name
.It Fl c , Fl -company Ar COMPANY_NAME
set the company name
.It Fl a , Fl -author Ar AUTHOR_NAME
set the author name. If you don't provide a default here or in the
.Xr liftoffrc 5 ,
.Nm
will generate a default value by looking at the
.Ic gecos
field from
.Xr passwd 5 .
.It Fl p , Fl -prefix Ar PREFIX
set the project's prefix
.It Fl i , Fl -identifier Ar IDENTIFIER
set the company identifier (com.mycompany). If you don't provide a default here
or in the
.Xr liftoffrc 5 ,
.Nm
will generate a default from a normalized version of the company name.
.It Fl -test-target-name Ar TEST_TARGET_NAME
set the name for the test target
.El
.Pp
If an Xcode project is found inside the current directory,
.Nm
will configure the existing project.
.Pp
If no existing project is found,
.Nm
will generate a new project structure, create a new Xcode project, and perform
the same configurations.
.Pp
If you pass a custom path on the command line,
.Nm
will use that path as the root folder for the project generation. Otherwise, it
will use the project's name by default.
.Pp
The following configurations will be performed:
.Pp
.Bl -dash -compact -width 2 -offset indent
.It
Set the indentation level on the project (in spaces, 4 by default)
.It
Enable additional warnings at the project level
.It
Treat warnings as errors for release schemes
.It
Add a build phase shell script to turn
.Ic TODO
and
.Ic FIXME
comments into warnings
.It
Add a build phase shell script to automatically set the app's version
information based on git
.It
Turn on static analysis for the project
.It
Perform arbitrary configuration as specified by the user's
.Xr liftoffrc 5
.It
Add default
.Pa .gitignore
and
.Pa .gitattributes
files
.It
Initialize a new
.Ic git
repository and create an initial commit (if needed)
.El
.Pp
.Sh CONFIGURATION
You can use a
.Pa .liftoffrc
file to speed up and customize your configuration by pre-defining your
preferred configurations. This is a YAML file that defines a set of keys and
values for configuring
.Nm .
.Pp
See
.Xr liftoffrc 5
for more detailed information on configuration.
.
.Sh Templates
You can add custom templates or override the default templates by adding them
to
.Pa ~/.liftoff/templates/
or
.Pa ./.liftoff/templates/ .
.Pp
.Nm
will use the same fallback order for the templates that it does for the
.Pa .liftoffrc :
.Bl -enum -offset indent -compact -width 10
.It
Local directory:
.Pa ./.liftoff/templates/
.It
User directory:
.Pa ~/.liftoff/templates/
.It
Default templates:
.Pa <liftoff-installation-location>/templates/
.El
.Pp
These templates and their filenames will be rendered with
.Ic ERB .
You can use any value available in the
.Ic liftoffrc
configuration inside the template.
.
.Sh FILES
.Pa ~/.liftoffrc
.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr liftoffrc 5
.
.Sh AUTHORS
.Nm
is maintained by
.An "Gordon Fontenot" Aq gordon@thoughtbot.com
and
.Lk http://thoughtbot.com thoughtbot
.Pp
Originally created and conceptualized by
.An "Mark Adams" Aq mark@thoughtbot.com
