.Dd March 4, 2014
.Dt LIFTOFFRC 5
.Os
.
.Sh NAME
.Nm liftoffrc
.Nd configuration for liftoff
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Xr liftoff 1
Xcode configuration tool can be configured using a
.Pa .liftoffrc
file in your home directory, or the directory from which you are running
.Ic liftoff .
This is a YAML file that defines a set of keys and values for configuring
.Ic liftoff .
.Pp
.Ic liftoff
will use the value for a given key from
.Pa ./.liftoffrc ,
then
.Pa ~/.liftoffrc .
If it can't find a value in those files, it will use the default configuration.
.
.Sh USAGE
You can use the lookup order to improve the experience when creating new
projects. For example, you can set the
.Ic author
key inside
.Pa ~/.liftoffrc :
.Pp
.Dl author: Gordon Fontenot
.Pp
Now, any projects you create will have your name set as the author by default.
.Pp
You can also use local
.Nm
files to customize information at a higher level. For example, you can set the
.Ic company
key inside
.Pa ~/dev/work-projects/.liftoffrc :
.Pp
.Dl company: thoughtbot
.Pp
Now, whenever you create projects for work, the company name will default to
.Ic thoughtbot ,
and the author name will default to
.Ic Gordon Fontenot .
.Pp
You can continue to create these for any directory in order to tweak the
settings for projects created inside them. For example, I also have
.Ic company
set inside
.Pa ~/dev/personal/.liftoffrc :
.Pp
.Dl company: Gordon Fontenot
.Pp
I could also set the
.Ic warnings
key to enable different warnings based on client requirements, or personal
preference.
.
.Sh CONFIGURATION
.Bl -tag -width 10
.It Ic project_template
type: string
.br
default:
.Ic swift
.Pp
Set the default template to use for project generation. This key corresponds to
a top level key under
.Ic app_target_templates .
If the key also exists in
.Ic test_target templates ,
then that template will be used for the test target.
.Pp
This setting can be overridden on the command line by using the
.Ic Fl -template Ar TEMPLATE_NAME
option.
.It Ic deployment_target
type: float
.br
default:
.Ic 8.0
.Pp
Set the desired deployment target for this project.
.It Ic configure_git
type: boolean
.br
default:
.Ic true
.Pp
Create
.Ic .gitignore ,
.Ic .gitattributes ,
and initialize git repo if needed.
.It Ic warnings_as_errors
type: boolean
.br
default:
.Ic true
.Pp
Turn warnings into errors on release builds.
.It Ic run_script_phases
type: array
.br
default: See
.Sx SCRIPT PHASES
.Pp
Install the specified scripts as individual Run Script Build Phases. The
scripts that you want to add should be located inside either the local
.Pa .liftoff/templates/
directory, or the user's
.Pa ~/.liftoff/templates/
directory.
.Pp
Each item in the array should be a dictionary containing a single key/value
pair. The key for the dictionary will be used as the template script's name.
The value will be used as the name of the script phase inside Xcode.
.It Ic enable_static_analyzer
type: boolean
.br
default:
.Ic true
.Pp
Turn on the static analyzer for the project.
.It Ic indentation_level
type: integer
.br
default:
.Ic 4
.Pp
Set the indentation width on the project (in spaces).
.It Ic use_tabs
type: boolean
.br
default:
.Ic false
.Pp
Configure the project to use spaces or tabs for indentation. As everyone knows,
you should really be using spaces for indentation. If you prefer to be wrong,
however, you can change this configuration to use tabs in your project.
.Pp
Note that this does
.Em not
affect the default templates. If you choose to be incorrect with your
indentation settings, we recommend that you also override the default templates
in order to be consistently wrong.
.It Ic use_cocoapods
type: boolean
.br
default:
.Ic true
.Pp
Generate a template
.Pa Podfile
and run
.Ic pod install
inside the project directory to install a default set of dependencies.
.Pp
The
.Pa Podfile
can be overridden by adding a custom template. If you override this template,
you should probably override the
.Pa UnitTests-Prefix.pch
template as well, since it imports the default pods if this key is enabled.
.It Ic strict_prompts
type: boolean
.br
default:
.Ic false
.Pp
Only prompt for values that don't have a default value.
.Pp
This is useful when combined with command line options to speed up the project
creation process, or when being used in environments where the interactive
prompt can't be used.
.It Ic warnings
type: array
.br
default: See
.Sx WARNINGS
.Pp
Enable the provided warnings for the Application target. Set to
.Ic false
to prevent warnings from being set.
.It Ic templates
type: array
.br
default: See
.Sx TEMPLATES
.Pp
Generate the specified templates for the project. User-defined templates should
be located either inside the local
.Pa .liftoff/templates/
directory, or in the user's
.Pa ~/.liftoff/templates/
directory.
.Pp
Each item in the array should be a single key/value pair. The key for the
dictionary will be used as the template's name, and the value will be used as
the destination relative to the project's root.
.Pp
See
.Sx TEMPLATES
for an example configuration.
.It Ic app_target_templates
type: dictionary
.br
default: See
.Sx TEMPLATE DIRECTORY STRUCTURES
.Pp
Specify template directory structures for the main application target. By
default, this comes with 2 templates:
.Ic swift
and
.Ic objc .
.It Ic test_target_groups
type: dictionary
.br
default: See
.Sx TEMPLATE DIRECTORY STRUCTURES
.Pp
Specify template directory structures for the unit test target. By default,
this comes with 2 templates:
.Ic swift
and
.Ic objc .
.It Ic project_name
type: string
.br
default: none
.Pp
Set the default value for the project name when generating new projects. Not
defined by default.
.It Ic company
type: string
.br
default: none
.Pp
Set the default value for the company name when generating new projects. Not
defined by default.
.It Ic company_identifier
type: string
.br
default: based on company name
.Pp
Set the default value for the company identifier when generating new projects.
Default value is the provided company name, downcased and stripped of special
characters. For example:
.Ic My Company Name!
becomes
.Ic com.mycompanyname .
.It Ic author
type: string
.br
default: Pulled from the
.Ic gecos
field in
.Xr passwd 5
.Pp
Set the default value for the author name when generating new projects. The
current user's name will be automatically set as the default.
.It Ic prefix
type: string
.br
default: none
.Pp
Set the default value for the project prefix when generating new projects. Not
enabled by default.
.It Ic xcode_command
type: string
.br
default:
.Ic open -a 'Xcode' .
.Pp
Set the command used to open the project after generation. By default we open
the current folder with Xcode, which will search for a
.Ic *.xcworkspace
file to open, falling back to a
.Ic *.pbxproj
file if it can't find one.
.Pp
Set this key to
.Ic false
to disable the automatic-open functionality
.It Ic extra_config
type: array of dictionaries
.br
default: none
.Pp
Add additional per-configuration settings to the main application target. By
default this key isn't set. See
.Sx EXTRA CONFIGURATION
for more information on the format of this key.
.El
.
.Sh SCRIPT PHASES
.Ic liftoff
installs two Run Script Build Phases by default:
.Bd -literal
  - todo.sh: Warn for TODO and FIXME comments
.Ed
.Pp
This script turns any
.Ic TODO
or
.Ic FIXME
comments into warnings at compilation time.
.Bd -literal
  - bundle_version.sh: Set version number
.Ed
.Pp
This script sets the build number based on the number of
.Ic git
commits on
.Ic master ,
and sets the marketing version based on the most recent
.Ic git
tag.
.
.Sh WARNINGS
.Ic liftoff
enables a set of warnings by default:
.Bl -tag -width 10
.It Ic GCC_WARN_INITIALIZER_NOT_FULLY_BRACKETED
Warn if an aggregate or union initializer is not fully bracketed.
.It Ic GCC_WARN_MISSING_PARENTHESES
Warn if parentheses are omitted in certain contexts, such as when there is an
assignment in a context where a truth value is expected, or when operators are
nested whose precedence people often get confused about.
.It Ic GCC_WARN_ABOUT_RETURN_TYPE
Causes warnings to be emitted when a function with a defined return type (not
void) contains a return statement without a return-value.  Also emits a warning
when a function is defined without specifying a return type.
.It Ic GCC_WARN_SIGN_COMPARE
Warn when a comparison between signed and unsigned values could produce an
incorrect result when the signed value is converted to unsigned.
.It Ic GCC_WARN_CHECK_SWITCH_STATEMENTS
Warn whenever a switch statement has an index of enumeral type and lacks a case
for one or more of the named codes of that enumeration.
.It Ic GCC_WARN_UNUSED_FUNCTION
Warn whenever a static function is declared but not defined or a non-inline
static function is unused.
.It Ic GCC_WARN_UNUSED_LABEL
Warn whenever a label is declared but not used.
.It Ic GCC_WARN_UNUSED_VALUE
Warn whenever a statement computes a result that is explicitly not used.
.It Ic GCC_WARN_UNUSED_VARIABLE
Warn whenever a local variable or non-constant static variable is unused aside
from its declaration.
.It Ic GCC_WARN_SHADOW
Warn whenever a local variable shadows another local variable, parameter or
global variable or whenever a built-in function is shadowed.
.It Ic GCC_WARN_64_TO_32_BIT_CONVERSION
Warn if a value is implicitly converted from a 64 bit type to a 32 bit type.
.It Ic GCC_WARN_ABOUT_MISSING_FIELD_INITIALIZERS
Warn if a structure's initializer has some fields missing.
.It Ic GCC_WARN_ABOUT_MISSING_NEWLINE
Warn when a source file does not end with a newline.
.It Ic GCC_WARN_UNDECLARED_SELECTOR
Warn if a
.Ic @selector(...)
expression referring to an undeclared selector is found.
.It Ic GCC_WARN_TYPECHECK_CALLS_TO_PRINTF
Check calls to
.Xr printf 3
and
.Xr scanf 3 ,
etc., to make sure that the arguments supplied have types appropriate to the
format string specified, and that the conversions specified in the format
string make sense.
.It Ic GCC_WARN_ABOUT_DEPRECATED_FUNCTIONS
Warn about the use of deprecated functions, variables, and types (as indicated
by the
.Ic deprecated
attribute).
.It Ic CLANG_WARN_DEPRECATED_OBJC_IMPLEMENTATION
Warn if an Objective-C class either subclasses a deprecated class or overrides
a method that has been marked deprecated.
.It Ic CLANG_WARN_OBJC_IMPLICIT_RETAIN_SEL
Warn about implicit retains of 'self' within blocks, which can create a
retain-cycle.
.It Ic CLANG_WARN_IMPLICIT_SIGN_CONVERSION
Warn about implicit integer conversions that change the signedness of an
integer value.
.It Ic CLANG_WARN_SUSPICIOUS_IMPLICIT_CONVERSION
Warn about various implicit conversions that can lose information or are
otherwise suspicious.
.It Ic CLANG_WARN_EMPTY_BODY
Warn about loop bodies that are suspiciously empty.
.It Ic CLANG_WARN_ENUM_CONVERSION
Warn about implicit conversions between different kinds of enum values.  For
example, this can catch issues when using the wrong enum flag as an argument to
a function or method.
.It Ic CLANG_WARN_INT_CONVERSION
Warn about implicit conversions between pointers and integers. For example,
this can catch issues when one incorrectly intermixes using
.Ic NSNumber*
and raw integers.
.It Ic CLANG_WARN_CONSTANT_CONVERSION
Warn about implicit conversions of constant values that cause the constant
value to change, either through a loss of precision, or entirely in its
meaning.
.El
.
.Sh TEMPLATES
.Ic liftoff
installs a number of templates by default:
.Bl -tag -width 10
.It Pa travis.yml
This template is installed to
.Pa .travis.yml ,
and contains a default setup for Travis integration.
.It Pa Gemfile.rb
This template is installed to
.Pa Gemfile ,
and contains a set of default gems for use with the project. Right now, it
contains
.Ic CocoaPods
and
.Ic XCPretty .
.It Pa test.sh
This template is installed to
.Pa bin/test
and enables the running of tests from the command line. This is used by the
default
.Pa travis.yml
template to determine build status.
.El
.Pp
.Ic liftoff
expects templates in the following format:
.Pp
.Bd -literal
  - travis.yml: .travis.yml
.Ed
.Pp
This will install the template named
.Pa travis.yml
found inside the templates directory to
.Pa .travis.yml
inside the project directory.
.Pp
This file will be parsed with ERB with the project configuration, giving you
access to any values that you can set via the
.Nm
.
.Sh TEMPLATE DIRECTORY STRUCTURES
.Ic liftoff
creates default directory and group structures for application and unit test
targets. These structures are specified with language specific keys inside the
.Ic app_target_templates
and
.Ic test_target_templates
configuration keys.
.Ic liftoff
will select the proper structure to build based on the
.Ic project_template
setting either in the
.Nm
or as provided on the command line with the
.Ic Fl -template Ar [TEMPLATE_NAME]
option.
.Pp
An example project template for Objective-C projects might look like the
following:
.Pp
.Bd -literal
app_target_templates:
  objc:
    - <%= project_name %>:
      - Categories:
      - Classes:
        - Controllers:
        - DataSources:
        - Delegates:
          - <%= prefix %>AppDelegate.h
          - <%= prefix %>AppDelegate.m
        - Models:
        - ViewControllers:
        - Views:
      - Constants:
      - Resources:
        - Images.xcassets
        - Storyboards:
        - Nibs:
        - Other-Sources:
          - <%= project_name %>-Info.plist
          - <%= project_name %>-Prefix.pch
          - main.m
.Ed
.Pp
This would override the default
.Ic objc
template for the main application target. This structure would also cause
.Ic liftoff
to generate templates for the
.Ic AppDelegate
class (prepending the proper prefix), as well as
.Ic Info.plist,
.Ic Prefix.pch,
and
.Ic main.m
files. The
.Ic Info.plist
and
.Ic Prefix.pch
will be prepended with the project name.
.
.Pp
See
.Sx TEMPLATES
for more information on
.Ic liftoff 's
templating ability.
.
.Pp
These keys are special, in that you can add template specific keys inside your
user or local
.Nm
files without overriding the defaults. This means that if I want to define a
new
.Ic empty
template, I can do so with the following inside my local or user
.Nm :
.Pp
.Bd -literal
app_target_templates:
  empty:
    - Files:
.Ed
.Pp
This would create a single
.Pa Files
directory inside the project root, and would not create a test target, since I
haven't defined a template directory structure for that target. You can now
specify this template by name by using
.Ic Fl -template Ar empty
on the command line, or even make it your default by setting
.Ic project_template
in your
.Nm .
.
.Sh EXTRA CONFIGURATION
.Ic liftoff
can perform additional arbitrary configuration to the main application target
on a per-build configuration basis. In order to add arbitrary settings, you
should add keys to the
.Ic extra_config
key in your
.Nm
that correspond to the build configuration you'd like to modify. For example,
to set all warnings on your
.Ic Debug
build configuration, you can set the following:
.Pp
.Bd -literal
extra_config:
  Debug:
    WARNING_CFLAGS:
      - -Weverything
.Ed
.Pp
Note that the key for the build configuration must match the name of the build
configuration you'd like to modify exactly.
.Pp
If you would like to set a project-wide setting for the application target, you
can use the special
.Ic all
key in the configuration:
.Pp
.Bd -literal
extra_config:
  all:
    WARNING_CFLAGS:
      - -Weverything
.Ed
.
.Sh FILES
.Pa ~/.liftoffrc
.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr liftoff 1
.
.Sh AUTHORS
.An "Gordon Fontenot" Aq gordon@thoughtbot.com
and
.Lk http://thoughtbot.com thoughtbot
