# Liftoff Changelog #

## Liftoff 1.1 - March 14, 2014 ##

### New Features ###

* Allow users to override templates. Now users can create templates inside
  `.liftoff/templates` at the local or user level in order to add custom
  templates, or override the default templates. - Gordon Fontenot
* Add support for CocoaPods. By default, Liftoff will generate a default
  podfile, and run `pod install` inside the project directory. This can be
  disabled inside the `.liftoffrc`. - JP Simard
* Add default pods for test target. By default, Liftoff will install `Specta`,
  `Expecta`, and `OCMock` for the test target. This can be overridden by using
  a custom template for the `Podfile` - Gordon Fontenot
* Add `company_identifier` property to configuration. We will now prompt for
  the company identifier on new project creation. The default for this prompt
  is generated by normalizing the provided company name, unless there is a
  default set by the `.liftoffrc` - Gordon Fontenot ([Thanks to Tony
  DiPasquale][liftoff#94])
* Open new projects after creation - Mark Adams

[liftoff#94]: https://github.com/thoughtbot/liftoff/issues/94

### Changes ###

* Application target defaults to portrait orientation only. - Mark Adams
* Automatically default to the current user's name. We no longer prompt for
  the user's name, instead defaulting to the name provided by the system. This
  can still be overridden by a `.liftoffrc` - Gordon Fontenot (Thanks to [Mike
  Burns][liftoff#80])
* Remove explicit framework linking. Since modules are enabled, we don't need
  to manually link frameworks anymore. - Gordon Fontenot
* Prefer new @import over #import - Mark Adams

[liftoff#80]: https://github.com/thoughtbot/liftoff/issues/80

### Bug Fixes ###

* Install ruby files into rubylib instead of lib. Previously, Homebrew was
  linking these into /usr/local/lib, which caused warnings when running `brew
  audit` - Gordon Fontenot ([Thanks to Ashton Williams][liftoff#107])
* Use `https` for GitHub URL in homebrew formula. This was causing warnings
  when running `brew audit` - Gordon Fontenot ([Thanks to Ashton Williams][liftoff#107])
* Print a nicer error if the directory exists. Previously, this was throwing
  an ugly ruby stack trace. - Gordon Fontenot ([Thanks to Mark
  Adams][liftoff#87])
* Trap interrupt during option input. Previously, this was throwing an ugly
  ruby stack trace. - Gordon Fontenot ([Thanks to George
  Brocklehurst][liftoff#81])
* Set SDKROOT at the project level - Gordon Fontenot ([Thanks to Tony
  DiPasquale][liftoff#97])

[liftoff#107]: https://github.com/thoughtbot/liftoff/issues/107
[liftoff#87]: https://github.com/thoughtbot/liftoff/issues/87
[liftoff#81]: https://github.com/thoughtbot/liftoff/issues/81
[liftoff#97]: https://github.com/thoughtbot/liftoff/issues/97

## Liftoff 1.0 - March 7, 2014 ##

Initial 1.0 release. See [blog post][liftoff-release] for details.

[liftoff-release]: http://robots.thoughtbot.com/liftoff-10
